Here are all the interview questions asked in this round, in order:
1. Previous company/project experience: “What have you done in your previous company? What project did you work on, and what was your role?”
2. GCP application security / Cloud Armor: How do you secure an internet-facing application using Global Load Balancer and Cloud Armor? How do you restrict traffic based on ASN, country/geo, IP ranges, or specific regions?
3. Kubernetes Pending pod troubleshooting: “A pod is stuck in Pending. Walk me through how you would troubleshoot it.”
4. Kubernetes commands: What commands would you use to identify and troubleshoot a Pending pod?
5. Pod logs vs events: Does kubectl describe provide error/application logs? When would you use kubectl logs instead?
6. Kubernetes deployment troubleshooting: What would you check if the pod/application does not start because of an incorrect image/image tag, port configuration, labels, selectors, or matchLabels?
7. GCP cross-project access: How would you provide a service account in one GCP project access to resources in another project?
8. Cross-project GCS access: Suppose a service account in Project A needs read access to a GCS bucket in Project B. How would you configure it?
9. GCP cost spike: “What will you do when you see a sudden cost spike in GCP?” How would you identify the project, service, SKU, or resource responsible and control the cost?
10. Organization Policy vs IAM: “What is the difference between GCP Organization Policy and IAM?”
11. CI/CD tools: “What CI/CD tools are you currently using?” You discussed Jenkins, Bitbucket Pipelines, GitLab Runner, GitHub Actions, and Cloud Build.
12. Harness: “Do you have any experience with Harness?”
13. Overall CI/CD flow: “Give me the overall flow/flowchart of your CI/CD pipeline.” This covered source → webhook → Jenkins → tests/SonarQube → Docker build → vulnerability scan → Artifact Registry → deployment/ArgoCD → GKE → validation → production → monitoring/rollback.
14. Terraform GCS bucket: “Can you write Terraform code to create a GCS bucket in GCP?”
15. Terraform lifecycle rule: How would you configure a bucket lifecycle condition such as moving objects to another storage class after 30 days?
16. GKE pod access to GCS: “How do you give a GKE pod access to Cloud Storage?” This covered Kubernetes ServiceAccount → Workload Identity → Google Service Account → IAM → GCS.
17. GKE Standard vs Autopilot: “What is the difference between GKE Standard and Autopilot?” Who manages nodes, scaling, upgrades, and underlying infrastructure?
18. P2 incident troubleshooting: “You own a P2 issue end-to-end. Something has changed and caused the problem. How will you debug it?”
19. Recent-change investigation: During an incident, how would you determine whether a recent application, Kubernetes, Terraform, configuration, or infrastructure change caused the issue?
20. Terraform concurrent apply: “What happens if two people execute terraform apply at the same time? What prevents state corruption?”
21. Terraform state locking: How does state locking work, and what would you do if Terraform reports that the state is already locked?
22. EC2-to-EC2 migration: “Suppose you performed an EC2-to-EC2 migration with zero downtime. How did you perform it?”
23. Actual migration cutover: “What was the actual cutover?” You discussed adding the new EC2 to the target group, validating health checks, shifting traffic, draining the old instance, monitoring, and then decommissioning it.
24. Migration rollback: What would you do if the new EC2 instance started failing after production traffic had been shifted?
25. Docker: “You have mentioned Docker in your experience. Have you worked with Docker?”
26. Docker Compose: “Have you worked with Docker Compose?”
27. Docker Compose coding: “Can you write a basic Docker Compose file?” The example involved an application container and PostgreSQL with ports, environment variables, depends_on, and a persistent volume.
28. Docker Compose startup behavior: What does depends_on do, and does it guarantee that the dependent application/database is actually ready?
This round was strongly focused on GCP + GKE + troubleshooting + Terraform + CI/CD, with additional AWS and Docker questions.
The highest-priority topics to revise from this round are Pending pod troubleshooting, Workload Identity, cross-project IAM, Cloud Armor, GCP cost investigation, Org Policy vs IAM, CI/CD architecture, Terraform state locking, incident/change troubleshooting, zero-downtime cutover, and Docker Compose.Here are all the interview questions asked in this conversation, in order:
1. What SRE work have you done in your Capgemini project? List it point by point.
2. What SRE tools have you used in your project, and what work have you done with each tool?
3. Explain your Dynatrace experience. What work have you done and what was your contribution?
   - APM
   - Microservices health monitoring
   - Centralized application monitoring
   - Distributed tracing
   - Alerting
   - Dashboards
   - Production troubleshooting/RCA
4. How would you implement monitoring and alerting for GKE pods? If a pod becomes corrupted/down or the replica count mismatches, how would you restart/recreate it or scale the pods?
5. Can you write a Kubernetes manifest for HPA autoscaling?
6. How does HPA calculate the required number of pods?
7. Write the core Terraform logic for a multi-stage application deployment.
8. How would you use Terraform to deploy an application across Dev, QA, UAT, and Prod environments?
9. How would you manage separate Terraform backend/state buckets for different environments/projects?
10. If a pod is stuck or not responding in a GKE cluster, how would you diagnose it?
11. What kubectl commands would you use to troubleshoot a problematic GKE pod?
- kubectl get pods
- kubectl describe pod
- kubectl logs
- kubectl logs --previous
- kubectl exec
- kubectl top
- kubectl get events
12. Suppose I want centralized monitoring for all GCP resources—GKE clusters/pods, Cloud Run, IAM, CI/CD pipelines, etc. How would you create the monitoring system using Prometheus, Grafana, or another observability platform?
13. For GKE cluster pods specifically, what monitoring and alerting setup would you implement?
14. What is SLI, SLO, and SLA?
15. Who defines or sets up the SLA, SLO, and SLI?
16. Can you explain GKE architecture?
- Control plane
- API Server
- etcd
- Controller Manager
- Scheduler
- Worker nodes
- Kubelet
- Pods
- Services/networking
17. When you execute a kubectl command, what happens internally in Kubernetes?
18. What is the responsibility of the kube-scheduler?
19. If a ReplicaSet is configured for three replicas but only two pods are running, which Kubernetes component detects and fixes it?
20. How does Kubernetes maintain desired state versus actual state?
21. How does a CronJob execute internally in Kubernetes?
22. How much experience do you have in Python?
23. If you need to write a Python script to monitor application errors on GCP, how would you implement it?
The major areas this interviewer is testing are SRE + observability, GKE/Kubernetes troubleshooting and internals, Terraform/multi-environment deployment, monitoring/alerting, SLI/SLO/SLA, and Python automation.""

save it